= Perens::InstantUser

Perens::InstantUser is a Rails Engine that makes it as easy as possible to
add user management: logins, authentication, sign-up, etc., to your Rails
application.

* All of the user management services are provided by the Devise gem, but
  we've done most of the *work* that it would otherwise take to install devise.
  The engine provides pre-configured routes and a User model.

* Rails >= 3.1, Devise >= 2.0.0.rc, and Ruby >= 1.9.3 are required.
  It's time to make the jump to
  Ruby 1.9 if you haven't already done so, as Rails 4.0 will require Ruby
  1.9.3 or greater.

* This engine is in a *very* early state of development. 
  There is no inline documentation in the code, and there are no tests!
  But it works (at least for me), and provides
  a good example of how to use Devise in an engine.

* My thanks to Devise author and Rails committer José Valim,
  who upon my request added a set of features to Devise that made it possible
  to use Devise from an engine.

== Installation

* Edit your Gemfile or gemspec to add a dependency on the perens-instant-user gem.
* <tt>bundle update</tt>
* <tt>rake perens_instant_user:install:migrations</tt>
* <tt>rake migrate</tt>
* Edit <tt>config/routes.rb</tt>, adding this line:
    mount Perens::InstantUser::Engine => '/'
* Copy http://raw.github.com/plataformatec/devise/master/lib/generators/templates/devise.rb into <tt>config/initializers/devise.rb</tt> and edit it.
  * Change <tt>config.mailer_sender</tt> to a valid address of yours.
  * Change the ORM configuration line to
      require 'devise/orm/active_record'
    if you are using ActiveRecord as your ORM (Rails defaults to this)
    or
      require 'devise/orm/mongoid'
    if you are using Mongoid.
  * Set the value for "config.pepper" to a *unique* value for your program.
    It *must* be unique, this value is used to chaff the encryption of
    passwords by your application. Security will be compromised if it's not
    unique or if it becomes *known to outsiders*.
    Generate the value by running this program once.
      require 'securerandom'
      print %Q(config.pepper = "#{SecureRandom.hex(64)}"\n)

* Edit one of your environment files, like <tt>config/application.rb</tt>, to add the
  URL info to be used in email messages to users from the user management
  system. While testing, this might be:
    config.action_mailer.default_url_options = { :host => 'localhost:3000' }
  but it must be set to the correct external URL when your application is
  running for
  real users.
* Add <tt>authenticate_user!</tt> and other Devise helpers to your controllers
  as appropriate. See the Devise README.rdoc[https://github.com/plataformatec/devise#readme] for information on the available features.
 
== Bugs
* Report issues here[https://github.com/BrucePerens/perens-instant-user/issues].

== To Do
* I'm planning to provide a web interface to set the configuration information,
  removing the need to copy and edit the Devise configuration file and the
  environment files.

== Why <tt>Perens::InstantUser</tt> instead of <tt>InstantUser</tt>, and why <tt>perens-instant-user</tt> instead of <tt>instant-user</tt>?
Ruby and Rails are large enough that we should not all be sharing the
same global namespace. Thus, all of my code will be in the
<tt>Perens</tt> module and my gem names will start with <tt>perens-</tt>.
Forks can just change "Perens" to something else and leave "InstantUser" the
same. It turns out that users of this engine only have to type the longer name
two times, so the tiny increase in user load seems to be a good trade for
avoiding name collisions.
